README.md, before:

# DatetimePickerInput

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jollygoodcode/datetime_picker_input.svg?branch=feature%2Ftravis-ci)](https://travis-ci.org/jollygoodcode/datetime_picker_input)

DatetimePickerInput allows you to easily add a [JavaScript datetime picker](http://eonasdan.github.io/bootstrap-datetimepicker/) to your Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap-enabled Simple Form input.

## Prerequisites

Rails 3.1 and 4+ compatible, and your app should already have Bootstrap and Simple Form installed.

Otherwise, set up [Bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap-sass) and [Simple Form](https://github.com/plataformatec/simple_form) now.

## Installation

Add this to your application's Gemfile then run `bundle install`:

```ruby
gem 'datetime_picker_input'
```

In the JavaScript manifest file `application.js`, add:

```js
//= require datetime_picker_input
```

In the CSS manifest file `application.scss`, add:

```scss
@import 'datetime_picker_input';
```

or `application.css`:

```css
*= require datetime_picker_input
```

## Usage

Demo app is available at [http://datetime-picker-input.herokuapp.com](http://datetime-picker-input.herokuapp.com).

### Simple Usage

```slim
= simple_form_for Event.new do |f|
  f.input :when, as: :date_time_picker
```

### Customized Options

```slim
= f.input :when, as: :date_time_picker, input_html:
  { data:
    {
      date_format: "YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm A",
      date_day_view_header_format: 'MMM YYYY',
      date_side_by_side: true,
      date_min_date: Time.current.strftime('%Y-%m-%d')
    }
  }
```

[Bootstrap 3 Datepicker](https://github.com/Eonasdan/bootstrap-datetimepicker/blob/master/src/js/bootstrap-datetimepicker.js#L291) is able to initialize a datetime picker through the use of `data` attributes on the `input` field.

To do that, modify any of the options specified in [Bootstrap 3 Datepicker's Doc](http://eonasdan.github.io/bootstrap-datetimepicker/Options/) by adding a prefix of `date` and underscoring the resulting option name.

For example:

- `dayViewHeaderFormat` to `date_day_view_header_format`
- `minDate` to `date_min_date`

## Customization

To [customize the input field](https://github.com/plataformatec/simple_form/wiki/Adding-custom-input-components), you can copy `datetime_picker_input.rb` from the gem to your app by using the generator included in `datetime_picker_input`.

Simple do:

```bash
$ rails g datetime_picker_input:install
```

This will generate `datetime_picker_input.rb` under `app/inputs` directory which you can modify.

## Dependencies

This gem is heavily dependent on and only possible because of the great work done in these gems:

- https://github.com/TrevorS/bootstrap3-datetimepicker-rails
- https://github.com/derekprior/momentjs-rails

## Versioning

Since this gem is ultimately dependent on https://github.com/Eonasdan/bootstrap-datetimepicker, this gem shall have the same version as the JavaScript plugin - current release version is 4.0.0.

Any bug fix release of this gem will have a 4th decimal added, e.g. 4.0.0.1, 4.0.0.2.

## Contributing

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

## Credits

A huge THANK YOU to all our [contributors](https://github.com/jollygoodcode/datetime_picker_input/graphs/contributors)! :heart:

## License

Please see the [LICENSE.md](/LICENSE.md) file.

## Maintained by Jolly Good Code

[![Jolly Good Code](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1000669/9362336/72f9c406-46d2-11e5-94de-5060e83fcf83.jpg)](http://www.jollygoodcode.com)

We specialise in Agile practices and Ruby, and we love contributing to open source.
[Speak to us](http://www.jollygoodcode.com/#get-in-touch) about your next big idea, or [check out our projects](http://www.jollygoodcode.com/open-source).

Commit message:

Updated readme with warning if user decides to change the format for the date time picker.

README.md, after:

# DatetimePickerInput

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jollygoodcode/datetime_picker_input.svg?branch=feature%2Ftravis-ci)](https://travis-ci.org/jollygoodcode/datetime_picker_input)

DatetimePickerInput allows you to easily add a [JavaScript datetime picker](http://eonasdan.github.io/bootstrap-datetimepicker/) to your Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap-enabled Simple Form input.

## Prerequisites

Rails 3.1 and 4+ compatible, and your app should already have Bootstrap and Simple Form installed.

Otherwise, set up [Bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap-sass) and [Simple Form](https://github.com/plataformatec/simple_form) now.

## Installation

Add this to your application's Gemfile then run `bundle install`:

```ruby
gem 'datetime_picker_input'
```

In the JavaScript manifest file `application.js`, add:

```js
//= require datetime_picker_input
```

In the CSS manifest file `application.scss`, add:

```scss
@import 'datetime_picker_input';
```

or `application.css`:

```css
*= require datetime_picker_input
```

## Usage

Demo app is available at [http://datetime-picker-input.herokuapp.com](http://datetime-picker-input.herokuapp.com).

### Simple Usage

```slim
= simple_form_for Event.new do |f|
  f.input :when, as: :date_time_picker
```

By default, when you select a value from the DateTime picker, we would default the format of the value
to `YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss Z`, i.e. `2015-10-25 14:33:02 +0800`.
This ensures that, out of the box, this value would be passed on to the Rails backend
and be saved as a DateTime value with the *correct Time Zone*.

Beneath the hood, Moment is used to parse and format value on the DateTime picker.
For other valid formats, please refer to [their Docs](http://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/).

#### Warning!

However, if you do change the format (like in the Customized Options example),
then you will need to implement your attribute setter and getter in Rails backend
to save and display the value correctly in your desired Time Zone.

### Customized Options

```slim
= f.input :when, as: :date_time_picker, input_html:
  { data:
    {
      date_format: "YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm A",
      date_day_view_header_format: 'MMM YYYY',
      date_side_by_side: true,
      date_min_date: Time.current.strftime('%Y-%m-%d')
    }
  }
```

[Bootstrap 3 Datepicker](https://github.com/Eonasdan/bootstrap-datetimepicker/blob/master/src/js/bootstrap-datetimepicker.js#L291) is able to initialize a datetime picker through the use of `data` attributes on the `input` field.

To do that, modify any of the options specified in [Bootstrap 3 Datepicker's Doc](http://eonasdan.github.io/bootstrap-datetimepicker/Options/) by adding a prefix of `date` and underscoring the resulting option name.

For example:

- `dayViewHeaderFormat` to `date_day_view_header_format`
- `minDate` to `date_min_date`

### Date Picker Only

```slim
= f.input :when, as: :date_time_picker, input_html: \
  { data: \
    { \
      date_format: "YYYY-MM-DD", \
    } \
  }
```

## Customization

To [customize the input field](https://github.com/plataformatec/simple_form/wiki/Adding-custom-input-components), you can copy `datetime_picker_input.rb` from the gem to your app by using the generator included in `datetime_picker_input`.

Simple do:

```bash
$ rails g datetime_picker_input:install
```

This will generate `datetime_picker_input.rb` under `app/inputs` directory which you can modify.

## Dependencies

This gem is heavily dependent on and only possible because of the great work done in these gems:

- https://github.com/TrevorS/bootstrap3-datetimepicker-rails
- https://github.com/derekprior/momentjs-rails

## Versioning

Since this gem is ultimately dependent on https://github.com/Eonasdan/bootstrap-datetimepicker, this gem shall have the same version as the JavaScript plugin - current release version is 4.0.0.

Any bug fix release of this gem will have a 4th decimal added, e.g. 4.0.0.1, 4.0.0.2.

## Contributing

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

## Credits

A huge THANK YOU to all our [contributors](https://github.com/jollygoodcode/datetime_picker_input/graphs/contributors)! :heart:

## License

Please see the [LICENSE.md](/LICENSE.md) file.

## Maintained by Jolly Good Code

[![Jolly Good Code](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1000669/9362336/72f9c406-46d2-11e5-94de-5060e83fcf83.jpg)](http://www.jollygoodcode.com)

We specialise in Agile practices and Ruby, and we love contributing to open source.
[Speak to us](http://www.jollygoodcode.com/#get-in-touch) about your next big idea, or [check out our projects](http://www.jollygoodcode.com/open-source).
